# Bus-Problem
An LED dance floor is a must for anyone looking to spice up the dance scene but it can be rather diffucult to implement. One of the main challenges is designing a bus for the system the can effectively transfer the data between the LED componets via a wired connection.
Instead of a full scale dance floor, this issue was analyzed from the simplfied standpoint of a 3x3 LED matrix. If each LED used 3 bits of data, the controller we would need would have to be able to drive at least 27 bits of data.
The topology of this bus would be to "snake" a wired through each row and down one coulumn at a time (ie. if the top right cell in the 3x3 matrix's index is [0,0] then the wire would go from the controller to [0,0]-[0,2] down to [1,2] and back across to [1,0]). This wiring scheme would allow us to minimize the distance between LEDs allowing the data stream to succesfully permeate throughout the entire circuit. The wires themselves would be twisted pairs in order to reduce the electomagnetic interference in the circut. 
The data flow method will allow the LEDs to light up seemingling independent of each other as the data stream will hit the last LED at near the same time the first LED is getting a new signal/instruction. The will make the communication speed appear as if it were faster by to the unwary user, but the communication speed does still have limitations. Assuming that the microcontroller we are using to drive the system has a baudrate of at least 9600 (it can transfer 9600 bits a second) that means it could execute about 355 intructions per second. The time it would take for hte signal to travel the circuit would depend on the conductivity and permitivity of the wire, but electric signals travel (at the low end) of 50% the speed of light, about 1.5x10^6 m/s. If the total length of the wire is 3 meters then it would take the signal 2x10^-6 seconds to reach the end of the wire. Because the time it would take the signal to reach the end is so small, we can ignore it only worry about proccesing speed so it would take the LED matrix about a second to turn on all the lEDs at least once.
